# LIGGGHTS Flexible Fibers

[Home](Home)

[Commands](commands)

## Fix Command

### Syntax

```text
fix ID group-ID style args
```

* ID = user-assigned name for the fix
* group-ID of the group of atoms to apply the fix to
* style = one of a long list of possible style names (see below)
* args = arguments used by a particlar style

### Examples

```text
fix 1 all nve
fix 3 all nvt temp 300.0 300.0 0.01
fix mine top setforce 0.0 NULL 0.0
```

### Description

Set a fix that will be applied to a group of atoms. In LIGGGHTS(R)-PUBLIC, a
“fix” is any operation that is applied to the system during timestepping or
minimization. Examples include updating of atom positions and velocities due
to time integration, controlling temperature, applying constraint forces to
atoms, enforcing boundary conditions, computing diagnostics, etc. There are
dozens of fixes defined in LIGGGHTS(R)-PUBLIC and new ones can be added; see
*[this section](not_done_yet)* for a discussion.

The full list of fixes defined in LIGGGHTS(R)-PUBLIC is on this page.

Fixes perform their operations at different stages of the timestep. If 2 or
more fixes operate at the same stage of the timestep, they are invoked in the
order they were specified in the input script.

The ID of a fix can only contain alphanumeric characters and underscores.

Fixes can be deleted with the [unfix](unfix) command.

---

#### Warning

The [unfix](unfix) command is the only way to turn off a fix; simply
specifying a new fix with a similar style will not turn off the first one.
This is especially important to realize for integration fixes. For example,
using a [fix nve](fix_nve) command for a second run after using a fix nvt
command for the first run, will not cancel out the NVT time integration
invoked by the “fix nvt” command. Thus two time integrators would be in place!

---

If you specify a new fix with the same ID and style as an existing fix, the
old fix is deleted and the new one is created (presumably with new settings).
This is the same as if an “unfix” command were first performed on the old fix,
except that the new fix is kept in the same order relative to the existing
fixes as the old one originally was. Note that this operation also wipes out
any additional changes made to the old fix via the fix_modify command.

The fix modify command allows settings for some fixes to be reset. See the doc
page for individual fixes for details.

Some fixes store an internal “state” which is written to binary restart files
via the restart or write_restart commands. This allows the fix to continue on
with its calculations in a restarted simulation. See the read_restart command
for info on how to re-specify a fix in an input script that reads a restart
file. See the doc pages for individual fixes for info on which ones can be
restarted.

Some fixes calculate one of three styles of quantities: global, per-atom, or
local, which can be used by other commands or output as described below. A
global quantity is one or more system-wide values, e.g. the energy of a wall
interacting with particles. A per-atom quantity is one or more values per
atom, e.g. the displacement vector for each atom since time 0. Per-atom values
are set to 0.0 for atoms not in the specified fix group. Local quantities are
calculated by each processor based on the atoms it owns, but there may be zero
or more per atoms.

Note that a single fix may produces either global or per-atom or local
quantities (or none at all), but never more than one of these.

Global, per-atom, and local quantities each come in three kinds: a single
scalar value, a vector of values, or a 2d array of values. The doc page for
each fix describes the style and kind of values it produces, e.g. a per-atom
vector. Some fixes produce more than one kind of a single style, e.g. a global
scalar and a global vector.

When a fix quantity is accessed, as in many of the output commands discussed
below, it can be referenced via the following bracket notation, where ID is
the ID of the fix:

```text
f_ID       | entire scalar, vector, or array
f_ID[i]    | one element of vector or one column of array
f_id[i][j] | one element of array
```

In other words, using one bracket reduces the dimension of the quantity once
(vector -> scalar, array -> vector). Using two brackets reduces the dimension
twice (array -> scalar). Thus a command that uses scalar fix values as input
can also process elements of a vector or array.

Note that commands and [variables](variables) which use fix quantities
typically do not allow for all kinds, e.g. a command may require a vector of
values, not a scalar. This means there is no ambiguity about referring to a
fix quantity as f_ID even if it produces, for example, both a scalar and
vector. The doc pages for various commands explain the details.

---

In LIGGGHTS(R)-PUBLIC, the values generated by a fix can be used in several
ways:

* Global values can be output via the [thermo_style](thermo_style) or
[fix ave/time](fix_ave_time) command. Or the values can be referenced in a
[variable equal](variable) or [variable atom](variable) command.
* Per-atom values can be output via the [dump custom](dump) command or the
[fix ave/spatial](fix_ave_spatial) command. Or they can be time-averaged via
the [fix ave/atom](fix_ave_atom) command or reduced by the
[compute reduce](compute_reduce) command. Or the per-atom values can be
referenced in an [atom-style variable](not_done_yet).
* Local values can be reduced by the [compute reduce](compute_reduce) command,
or histogrammed by the [fix ave/histo](fix_ave_histo) command.

See this [howto section](not_done_yet) for a summary of various
LIGGGHTS(R)-PUBLIC output options, many of which involve fixes.

The results of fixes that calculate global quantities can be either
“intensive” or “extensive” values. Intensive means the value is independent of
the number of atoms in the simulation, e.g. temperature. Extensive means the
value scales with the number of atoms in the simulation, e.g. total rotational
kinetic energy. [Thermodynamic output](thermo_style) will normalize extensive
values by the number of atoms in the system, depending on the “thermo_modify
norm” setting. It will not normalize intensive values. If a fix value is
accessed in another way, e.g. by a [variable](variable), you may want to know
whether it is an intensive or extensive value. See the doc page for individual
fixes for further info.

The full list of fixes defined in LIGGGHTS(R)-PUBLIC is on this
[page](commands).

### Restrictions

Some fix styles are part of specific packages. They are only enabled if
LIGGGHTS(R)-PUBLIC was built with that package. See the
[Making LIGGGHTS(R)-PUBLIC](how_to_install) section for more info on packages.
The doc pages for individual fixes tell if it is part of a package.

### Related Commands

[unfix](not_done_yet)
[fix_modify](not_done_yet)

#### Defaults

None

##### © Copyright 2016, DCS Computing GmbH, JKU Linz and Sandia Corporation
